>> Kevin Powell: With that section done,
we can move on down to the Bento Grid.
I love Bento layouts,
they're quite popular right now.
This isn't the fanciest one in the world,
but
we also have to make
a decision along the way.
If we look at the design,
we have the really small size where
they're just stacked, nothing too fancy.
It's already working.
And then we have the large size that we
have now that looks something like this.
We could also build in a middle-ground.
This would be somewhere, again, if you're
actually working with the designer
a discussion with them cuz they
didn't provide it for you,
could be really useful.
But if you don't have anything in
the middle then you just get to
decide what to do.
And we'll build in a simple little
middle where it's two columns and
then we'll go up to the three here.
And so, to do that, this is where, again,
I didn't wanna rely on
the layout that we had.
Sorry, we'll come to here.
I didn't wanna rely on the layout for
the equal columns,
just cuz so much of what we need
to build is completely custom.
And when you have layouts like this, where
the elements sort of span across different
amounts of rows or columns,
we just need to be very specific with it.
A hundred percent, this is a grid based
layout and not a Flexbox based layout.
When I look at it,
you could build this with Flexbox.
We used to do the layouts like this
with flexbox, but now that we have grid,
it's a lot easier.
With Flexbox you'd have extra nesting of
divs just to create more columns, and
it gets messy pretty quickly.
And then when you wanna rearrange things,
you're quite limited in how
you're able to do that.
For this, you could say it's a layout, but
I'm gonna put it as a component
just because it's, again,
this one specific use case that I
probably wouldn't use anywhere else.
If you had different Bento layouts, well,
each Bento layout would
probably be a bit different.
And so,
I'm just gonna do it in my components.
So let's go look for that layer, and I'm
gonna do it sort of close to my hero area,
again, just because the hero, the mushroom
guide, I'm gonna to plug it right here.
And we need a name for it,
cuz it's a very unique layout.
My faq queue is right here.
So I did the wrapper, and
then I put all my cards in there.
So I will come right
here after my wrapper.
We could call it faq-bento.
You could just call it faq, faq-grid,
a name that makes sense to you.
You might be wondering
why I'm saying bento.
It's just the name that people give this
type of layout cuz it looks like those
bento boxes you can get for food, where
they have these types of shapes in them.
So if you look up bento layout for
inspiration or design or anything,
if you wanna build a layout like this.
If you look at bento, you'll see all sorts
of awesome layouts that use this sort of
mixed spanning grid thing.
So I can put that at the very top.
Shrink all my cards down so
they're not getting in my way.
And then after that last card,
close that div.
So I have the bento grid, and
then I have these four coming in there.
If we go back to my styles,
.faq-bento, and
we can come up with something fun here.
And this is, again,
talking about the utility classes versus
components that are reusable,
versus just one off things.
This is definitely like, I wouldn't wanna
have to build something like this with
the utility class,
I find it just doesn't work.
We know that it needs to
be grid cuz I said so.
[LAUGH] So
we're gonna do a grid with a gap on there.
And I can see if it's working just cuz
I should get my gap in between them.
And again, don't be scared of
doing a really big number just so
you can see that it's actually working.
And it's small screen sizes,
we're done, that's it.
Now we wanna come in
with larger screen sizes.
And up until now we've been using the
media query of 760, so we'll start there.
But I have a feeling that we
might need to change this.
But we'll just say the width
is greater than 760.
And we want to come in with
a more complicated grid now.
So we can add some columns.
Let's do grid-template-columns;,
or let's do the biggest one,
because we know what that's gonna be.
And then we can fill in
the middle-ground after actually,
cuz I think that makes more sense.
At the large screen size we need
three columns, is the way I see it.
It can be sometimes hard to know,
this one's not too complicated.
Sometimes you'll need six columns to
be able to do what the grid looks like.
My suggestion is, anywhere you see a gap,
just draw a straight line going through.
So I see I have two vertical gaps,
so I know I need three columns.
I'm also gonna need two rows.
I tend not to declare grid template
rows unless I really need them.
So we'll see if we can get away
without it this time around.
So we can say repeat(3,
1fr); cuz I know I want three columns.
And that means when we hit that break
point we get our three columns coming in.
Awesome, it's a good start.
We obviously need to make
the layout look a lot better.
And when we have layouts like this that
have very specific areas for things to be.
When we're using grid there's a couple
of different ways you can work.
If you've played around with
grid much you'll probably
know about using grid column line numbers,
I like them, they're fine.
But when you have these different pieces
that sort of need to be rearranged
multiple times from a small screen size
to a medium screen size to a larger
screen size.
Having to select every
one of the children,
every time that happens can
be a little bit annoying.
If you use grid-template-areas,
you can control most of the layout
changes that are happening without
touching the children at all and
just manipulating everything
here on the faq-bento.
So even at the small screen sizes,
I'm gonna do a grid-template-areas:.
This is one of those weird CSS things
where I'm gonna do it on a separate line.
But I'm gonna write "card-one".
And it's weird because it's
in quotation marks, and
I don't know why they decided to do
the quotation marks the way they did.
It works well, but it's this other
thing with grid that's different from
anywhere else you would do things.
"Card-three" and a "card-four".
And what this is basically doing is
saying, I'm gonna have one, two, three,
four rows.
The top row is gonna have the name of
card-one, the second row is gonna have
a name of card-two, the third row is
card-three, the fourth row is card-four.
Then what I can do here,
when I have this larger screen size and
I have three columns, well,
I can come and look at that.
I can say, you're just drawing it out,
basically.
So grid-template-areas, once again, I
like being on a separate line once again.
But now this is where it
gets a little bit different,
cuz I say "card-one",
is gonna go in my first column.
In my second column, but in the same
row I need the card-two, so card-two.
It's all within the same
set of quotation marks, but
with a space between them to differentiate
that by being in the same quotation marks
it's saying it's the same row.
But now I'm defining two
different column names there,
and then we need this third one over here.
For that third one,
before we decide which card that is,
let's go look at the smaller layout.
Cuz that's actually my fourth card that's
all the way at the bottom, according to
how we wrote our HTML, cuz our HTML
followed this layout that's right here.
So that means here, whoops,
let's go find the layout again.
Here this is actually card-four, so
I can come here and write card-four.
And then we can come down onto another
line, put another set of quotation marks,
and now I'm working on this second
row that's down here at the bottom.
We have card-three, and
then we have the second column.
The second column also needs
the same card in there.
So I can just say card-three again.
And then we're in the last column,
we have card-four at the top.
I want card-four also to go all the way
to the bottom, so I just write card-four.
You're just basically drawing
it out the best way you can.
If you wanna add extra spaces in
here to line things up, just so
it's really obvious how it's
working you can do that.
But when you save it prettier
we'll probably remove that extra
spacing that you've put.
The extra spaces won't
cause any difference or
anything like that, but just so
you can sort of visualize a little bit
more of what your grid's
actually looking like.
So if I, prettier didn't take
it away when I hit save,
so it keeps the formatting
kind of nice there.
>> Speaker 2: These names you're picking
for the grid areas aren't related to
the HTML at all, right,
you're making these names up?
>> Kevin Powell: Yeah, yeah,
it won't impact classes, it has no
connection at all to anything I've done.
You can call them anything you want,
you could probably just do them one, two,
three four if you wanted to.
Any name you want for
this, they're made up names that I'm just
deciding cuz it's easy to reference.
But come up with different names
if you'd like to definitely.
Now, when you do that, it feels like
something should have happened, but
if we go take a look,
nothing really will have happened yet.
We're still getting everything just
looking the same way it was before,
cuz the browser doesn't know
what to really do with them.
There's probably actually extra
columns and stuff being created.
Now it's gonna be kind of weird, cuz these
cards haven't been assigned to anything.
So we actually have to assign each
card to one of these grid areas.
We could give each card a class to be
able to do that, and that would be fine.
But whenever I do a layout like this,
I always wanna think of like,
what if I took one of these out and
added like a new thing in there?
Or what if I just wanted to
switch the position of two cards?
So they come back and they go, actually,
Kevin, we'd really like this one here to
go here and we're just gonna shuffle
them all in a different order.
I don't wanna have to
move them in the HTML and
then remember which class
names they all need to have.
So this is one of the few cases where I
think the best option is actually using
nth-child.
So that way, whatever order they are,
inside there, they're just
gonna get positioned into the right place,
and it becomes very easy to do.
So in here, I'm gonna do an :nth-child(1).
Oops, gets a grid-area:.
And this is where it's kind of weird,
cuz you don't use quotation marks anymore.
You just write grid-area: one.
Up here is plural cuz we're
defining multiple areas.
We're creating the template
of all the different areas,
over here is just grid-area singular cuz
we're assigning it to one of those areas.
And then, as you might guess two,
three, four, 2, 3, 4, and
one, two, three, four.
>> Kevin Powell: And now each one of them
has been assigned based on the order that
they are, and
if I did that properly we should see,
there we go,
our layout is sort of coming together.
There's some issues with it, granted, but
at least everything is going
where I expected it to.
So these two first ones
just sit in the top one.
This one stretches all the way down, and
then this other one's living over here.
We do need to adjust the layout of
this one, we'll do that in a minute.
For now, I'm pretty happy that we
actually got that layout coming together.
And one thing I just wanna reiterate with
this is now that these have been assigned
their areas, I can do whatever I want
where I'm declaring the different areas.
And the cards are just
gonna lever I want to.
I don't have to reselect any of those,
I just have to redefine the areas here.
So really fast if we came in and
said we'll just come in with another one.
And we could change the breakpoints here,
but let's just say (500 width > 500px).
I could do a grid-template-areas:.
Of, whoops, there we go.
And we're not gonna keep this this way,
but say we did "card-four card-one" and
then we did a "card-three card-two" or
something like that.
It just means they're gonna go
to those positions at that size.
They've been assigned to the areas, I can
do as much as I want with the areas on
the parent now, and everything's just
gonna fall into place every time.
It can be easy to over-rely on these
types of situations a little bit.
I've even done it where I've gone
a bit overboard on using grid template
areas cuz it feels like this magic
formula that just works all the time, and
sometimes there's simpler ways.
But when you do have a layout,
the content is not really changing, but
it needs the different pieces
just get re-manipulated, or
manipulated depending on the screen size.
Then I find grid-template-areas
are the easiest way to do it.
Now, as far as the break points go,
I did say, do you wanna have
a two column version of it?
If we go to, let's click there just so
we're looking at the browser.
Once again, I sort of magic numbered it.
[LAUGH] In a sense, if I'm looking here,
these look really narrow to me.
They're getting kinda squished and
kinda way too small.
So I'll probably make
that brick point bigger.
And it's one of those things it takes,
again,
either talk with your designer and
find what works with them.
Or you just sort of find the point
when you feel the break point makes
the most sense.
And right around there to
me it looks pretty good.
So I'm gonna go with a 600 for that one.
And then as we get bigger,
as we get bigger,
that's probably happening too early
as well, that's kind of narrow.
I'd probably do that at
a bit of a wider size,
so we could do 800 or 900 and
play around with it a little bit.
So looks a lot better at the 900 for me.
The one thing I've done right now is I've
added two break points to my design that
we didn't have before.
I was using 760 for everything.
This one time I'm using
something a bit different, and
I said having consistency
is really important.
I still stand by that, but
you're gonna run into situations where
a layout doesn't work at certain sizes.
So the one thing I would say is,
if I had a breakpoint that was 630 pixels,
I would stick with my 630 here and
I wouldn't come up with a 600.
I don't wanna have something
changing at 605, another one at 626,
and really specific numbers that
you're coming in with the breakpoints.
So now maybe I have three generic
breakpoints in my project, 600, the 760,
and the 900.
And those become the main ones
that I'm focused on going forward.
So if I feel like the 760 doesn't work,
I know I could use one or the other.
Another thing that we need
to do is fix our titles and
we need to fix the layout down here.
And actually let's just do this.
This should just be a one, two, three and
a four, so I'll fix that right away.
For this one, if you didn't do
it with the grid template areas,
you could also just do grid template
columns cuz they're in the correct order,
so it is an option there as well.
When you're creating grid-template-areas,
if you haven't declared any
grid-template-columns, like I haven't done
any here, it's still creating two columns.
This is just implicitly creating them,
cuz I'm telling it there should be two
columns through these grid-template-areas.
There's the potential that maybe they're
a little bit of a different size.
There's no harm in also having
the grid template columns.
So we can do the repeat(2, 1fr) there.
It's definitely not required,
you don't have to do it.
If you like having that explicit
declaration there you can
definitely have it.
But if you just put this and it's working,
you can decide you don't
really wanna do that.
But let's go fix those titles, and
we can do the titles in the exact same way
that we did it for the previous section.
We're looking at the parent.
We had those card titles
that we can manipulate.
So we can say that our card,
I think the only thing --card-title-font,
no, color, the font size is,
I believe, the right one.
And then we can do our
var(--text-high-contrast).
And in doing that, let's,
>> Kevin Powell: There we go,
the right one has come through now.
I forgot my semicolon before that and
it broke everything.
But having that there, we can see it's
coming through with the right font color
on those and it's looking pretty good.